
				CHAPTER 1: UNIX FOR BEGINNERS

What is "UNIX"? In the narrowest sense, it is a time-sharing operating system
kernel: a program that controls the resources of a computer and allocates them
among its users. It lets users run their programs; it controls the peripheral
devices (discs, terminals, printers, and the like) connected to the machine; and
it provides a file system that manages the long-term storage of information such
as programs, data, and documents.

In a broader sense, "UNIX" is often taken to include not only the kernel, but
also essential programs like compilers, editors, command languages, programs for
copying and printing files, and so on.

Still more broadly, "UNIX" may even include programs developed by you or other
users to be run on your system, such as tools for document preparation, routines
for statistical analysis, and graphics packages.

Which of these uses of the name "UNIX" is correct depends on which level of the
system you are considering. When we use "UNIX" in the rest of this book, context
should indicate which meaning is implied.

The UNIX system sometimes looks more difficult than it is --- it's hard for a
newcomer to know how to make the best use of the facilities available. But
fortunately it's not hard to get started --- knowledge of only a few programs
should get you off the ground. This chapter is meant to help you to start using
the system as quickly as possible. It's an overview, not a manual; we'll cover
most of the material again in more detail in later chapters. We'll talk about
these major areas:

* basics --- logging in and out, simple commands, correcting typing mistakes,
  mail, inter-terminal communication.
  
* day-to-day use --- files and file system, printing files, directories,
  commonly-used commands.
  
* the command interpreter or shell --- filename shorthands, redirecting intput
  and output, pipes, setting erase and kill characters, and defining your own
  search path for commands.
  
If you've used a UNIX system before, most of this chapter should be familiar;
you might want to skip straight to Chapter 2.
