
hanging up the phone will stop most programs.

If you just want output to pause, for example to keep something critical from
disappearing off the screen, type ctl-s. The output will stop almost
immediately; you program is suspended until you start it again. When you want to
resume, type ctl-q.


Logging out

The proper way to log out is to type ctl-d instead of a command; this tells the
shell that there is no more input. (How this actually works will be explained in
the next chapter.) You can usually just turn off the terminal or hang up the
phone, but whether this really logs you out depends on your system.

Mail

The system provides a postal system for communicating with other users, so some
day when you log in, you will see the message

        You have mail
	
before the first prompt. To read your mail, type

        $ mail

your mail will be printed, one message at a time, most recent first. After each
item, mail waits for you to say what to do with it. The two basic responses are
d, which deletes the message, and RETURN, which does not (so it will still be
there the next time you read your mail). Other responses include p to reprint a
message, s filename to save it in the file you named, and q to quit from
mail. (If you don't know what a file is, think of it as a place where you can
store information under a name of your choice, and retrieve it later. Files are
the topics of Section 1.2 and indeed of much of this book.)

Mail is one of those programs that is likely to differ from what we describe
here; there are some variants. Look in your manual for details.

Sending mail to someone is straightforward. Suppose it is to go to the person
with the login name nico. The easiest way is this:

        $ mail nico
	how type in the text of the letter
	on as many lines as you like ...
	After the last line of the letter
	type a control-d
	ctl-d
	$

The ctl-d signals the end of the letter by telling the mail command that there
is no more input. If you change your mind half-way through composing the letter,
press DELETE instead of ctl-d. The half-formed letter will be stored in a file
called dead.letter instead of being sent.
