
        Mary's terminal:                Your terminal
        $ write you
                                        $ Message from mary tty7...
                                        write mary
        Message	from you ttya...
        did you forget lunch? (o)
                                        did you forget lunch? (o)
                                        five@
                                        ten minutes (o)
        ten minutes (o)
        ok (oo)
                                        ok (oo)
                                        ctl-d
        EOF
        ctl-d
                                        $ EOF
        $

You can also exit from write by pressing DELETE. Notice that your typing errors
do not appear on Mary's terminal.

If you try to write to someone who isn't logged in, or who doesn't want to be
disturbed, you'll be told. If the target is logged in but doesn't answer after a
decent interval, the person may be busy or away from the terminal; simply type
ctl-d or DELETE. If you don't want to be disturbed, use mesg(1).

News

Many UNIX systems provide a news service, to keep users abreast of interesting
and not so interesting events. Try typing

        $ news

There is also a large network of UNIX systems that keep in touch through
telephone calls; ask a local expert about netnews and USENET.

The manual

The UNIX programmer's manual describes most of what you need to know about the
system. Section q deals with commands, including those we discuss in this
chapter. Section 2 describes the system calls, the subject of Chapter 7, and
Section 6 has information about games. The remaining sections talk about
functions for use by C programmers, file formats, and system maintenance. (The
numbering of these sections varies from system to system.) Don't forget the
permuted index at the beginning; you can skim it quickly for commands that might
be relevant to what you want to do. There is also an introduction to the system
that gives an overview of how things work.

Often the manual is kept on-line so that you can read it on your terminal. If
you get stuck on something, and can't find an expert to help, you can print any
manual page on your terminal with the command man command-name.

