
won't describe any specific screen editor, however, partly because of
typographic limitations, and partly because there is no standard one.

There is, however, an older editor called ed that is certain to be available on
your system. It takes no advantage of special terminal features, so it will work
on any terminal. It also forms the basis of other essential programs (including
some screen editors), so it's worth learning eventually. Appendix 1 contains a
concise description.

No matter what editor you prefer, you'll have to learn it well enough to be able
to create files. We'll use ed here to make the discussion concrete, and to
ensure that you can make our examples run on your system, but by all means use
whatever editor you like best.

To use ed to create a file called junk with some text in it, do the following:

        $ ed                            Invokes the text editor
        a                               ed command to add text
        now type in
        whatever text you want ...
        .                               Type a '.' by itself to stop adding text
        w junk                          Write your text into a file called junk
        39                              ed prints number of characters written
        q                               Quit ed
        $

The command a ("append") tells ed to start collecting text. The "." that signals
the end of the text must be typed at the beginning of a line by itself. Don't
forget it, for until it is typed, no other ed commands will be recognized ---
Everything you type will be treated as text to be added.

The editor command w ("write") stores the information that you typed; "w junk"
stores it in a file called junk. The filename can be any word you like; we
picked junk to suggest that this file isn't very important.

ed responds with the number of characters it put in the file. Until the w
command, nothing is stored permanently, so if you hang up and go home the
information is not stored in the file. (If you hang up while editing, the data
you were working on is saved in a file called ed.hup, which you can continue
with at your next session.) If the system crashes (i.e., stops unexpectedly
because of software of hardware failure) while you are editing, your file will
contain only what the last write command placed there. But after w the
information is recorded permanently; you can access it again later by typing

        $ ed junk

Of course, you can edit the text you typed in, to correct spelling mistakes,
change wording, rearrange paragraphs and the like. When you're done, the q
command ("quit") leaves the editor.
