        $ ed junk                       
        19                              ed reports 19 characters in junk
        1,$p                            Print lines 1 through last
        To be or not to be              File has only one line
        q                               All done
        $

ed begins by reporting the number of characters in junk; the command 1,$p tells
it to print all the lines in the file. After you learn how to use the editor,
you can be selective about the parts you print.

There are times when it's not feasible to use an editor for printing. For
example, there is limit --- several thousand lines --- on how big a file ed can
handle. Furthermore, it will only print one file at a time, and sometimes you
want to print several, one after another without pausing. So here are a couple
of alternatives.

First is cat, the simplest of all the printing commands. cat prints the contents
of all the files names by its arguments:

        $ cat junk
        To be or not to be
        $ cat temp
        That is the question.
        $ cat junk temp
        To be or not to be
        That is the question.
        $
        
The named file or files are catenated+ (hence the name "cat") onto the terminal
one after another with nothing between.

There's no problem with short files, but for long ones, if you have a high-speed
connection to your computer, you have to be quick with ctl-s to stop output from
cat before it flows off your screen. There is no "standard" command to print a
file on video terminal one screenful at a time, though almost every UNIX system
has one. Your system might have one called pg or more. Ours is called p; we'll
show you its implementation in Chapter 6.

Like cat, the command pr prints the contents of all the files names in a list,
but in a form suitable for line printer: every page is 66 lines (1 inches) long,
with the date and time that the file was changed, the page number, and the
filename at the top of each page, and extra lines to skip over the fold in the
paper. Thus, to print junk neatly, then skip to the top of a new page and print
temp neatly:


----------------
+ "Catenate" is slightly obscure synonym for "concatenate."
