
        $ grep -v fleas poem
          upon their backs to bite 'em,
          and so ad infinitum.
        While these again have greater still,
          and greater still, and so on.
        $ 

grep can be used to search several files; in that case it will prefix the
filename to each line that matches, so you can tell where the match took
place. There are also options for counting, numbering, and so on. grep will also
handle much more complicated patterns than just words like "fleas," but we will
defer consideration of that until Chapter 4.

The third command is sort, which sorts its input into alphabetical order line by
line. This isn't very interesting for the poem, but let's do it anyway, just to
see what it looks like:

        $ sort poem
          and greater still, and so on.
          and so ad infinitum.
          have greater fleas to go on;
          upon their backs to bite 'em,
        And little fleas have lesser fleas,
        And the great fleas themselves, in turn,
        Great fleas have little fleas
        While these again have greater still,
        $ 

The sorting is line by line, but the default sorting order puts blanks first,
then upper case letters, then lower case, so it's not strictly alphabetical.

sort has zillions of options to control the order of sorting --- reverse order,
numerical order, dictionary order, ignoring leading blanks, sorting on fields
with the line, etc. --- but usually one has to look up those options to sure of
them. Here are a handful of the most common:

        sort -r            Reverse normal order
        sort -n            Sort in numerical order
        sort -nr           Sort in reverse numerical order
        sort -f            Fold upper and lower case together
        sort +n            Sort starting at n+1-st fields

Chapter 4 has more information about sort.

Another file-examining command is tail, which prints the last 10 lines of a
file. That's overkill for our eight-line poem, but it's good for larger files.
Furthermore, tail has an option to specify the number of lines, so to print the
last line of poem.



