all by itself will take you back to your home directory, the directory where you
log in.

Once your book is published, you can clean up the files. To remove the directory
book, remove all the files in it (we'll show a fast way shortly), then cd to the
parent directory of book and type

        $ rmdir book

rmdir will only remove an empty directory.


1.4 The shell

When the system prints the prompt $ and you type commands that get executed,
it's not the kernel that is talking to you, but a go-between called the command
interpreter or shell. The shell is just an ordinary program like date or who,
although it can do some remarkable things. The fact that the shell sits between
you and the facilities of the kernel has real benefits, some of which we'll talk
about here. There are three main ones:

* Filename shorthands: you can pick up a whole set of filenames as arguments to
  a program by specifying a pattern for the names --- the shell will find the
  filenames that match your pattern.

* Input-output redirection: you can arrange for the output of any program to go
  into a file instead of onto the terminal, and for the input to come from a
  file instead of the terminal. Input and output can even be connected to other
  programs.

* Personalizing the environment: you can define your own commands and
  shorthands.


Filename shorthand

Let's begin with filename patterns. Suppose you're typing a large document like
a book. Logically this divides into many small pieces, like chapters and perhaps
sections. Physically it should be divided too, because it is cumbersome to edit
large files. Thus you should type the document as a number of files. You might
have separate files for each chapter, called ch1, ch2, etc. Or, if each chapter
were broken into sections, you might create files called

        ch1.1
        ch1.2
        ch1.3
        ...
        ch2.1
        ch2.2
        ...

which is the organization we used for this book. With a systematic naming
convention, you can tell at a glance where a particular file fits into the
whole.

What if you want to print the whole book? you could say

