
a bother to have to type this every time you log in.

The shell comes to the rescue. If there is a file named .profile in your login
directory, the shell will execute the commands in it when you log in, before
printing the first prompt. So you can put commands into .profile to set up your
environment as you like it, and they will be executed every time you log in.

The first thing most people put their .profile is

        stty erase <-

We're using <- here so you can see it, but you could put a literal backspace in
your .profile. stty also understands the notation ^x for ctl-x, so you can get
the same effect with

        stty erase '^h'

because ctl-h is backspace. (The ^ character is an obsolete synonym for the pipe
operator |, so you must protect it with quotes.)

If your terminal doesn't have sensible tab stops, you can add -tabs to the stty
line:

        stty erase '^h' -tabs

If you like to see how busy the system is when you log in, add

        who | wc -l

to count the users. If there's a news service, you can add news. Some people
like a fortune cookie:

        /usr/games/fortune

After a while you may decide that it is taking too long to log i, and cut your
.profile back to the bare necessities.

Some of the properties of the shell are actually controlled by so-called shell
variables, with values that you can access and set yourself. For example, the
prompt string, which we have been showing as $, is actually stored in a shell
variable called PS1, and you can set it to anything you like, like this:

        PS1='Yes dear? '

The quotes are necessary since there are spaces in the prompt string. Spaces are
not permitted around the = in this construction.

The shell also treats the variable HOME and MAIL specially, HOME is name of your
home directory; it is normally set properly without having to be in
.profile. The variable MAIL names the standard file where your mail is kept. If
you define it for the shell, you will be notified after each command if new mail
has arrived.+


----------------
+ This is implemented badly in the shell. Looking at the file after every
command adds perceptibly to the system load. Also, if you are working in an
editor for a long time you won't learn about
