
		    CHAPTER 2: PROGRAMMING WITH STANDARD I/O

So far we have used existing tools to build new ones, but we are at the limit of
what can be reasonably done with the shell, sed and awk. In this chapter we are
going to write some simple programs in the C programming language. The basic
philosophy of making things that work together will continue to dominate the
discussion and the design of the programs --- we want to create tools that
others can use and build on. In each case, we will also try to show a sensible
implementation strategy: start with the bare minimum that does something useful,
then add features and options (only) if the need arises.

There are good reasons for writing new programs from scratch. It may be that the
problem at hand just can't be solved with existing programs. This is often true
when the program must deal with non-text files, for example --- the majority of
the programs we have shown so far really work well only on textual
information. Or it may be too difficult to achieve adequate robustness or
efficiency with just the shell and other general-purpose tool. In such cases, a
shell version may be good for honing the definition and user interface of a
program. (And if it works well enough, there's no point re-doing it.) The zap
program from the last chapter is a good example: it took only a few minutes to
write the first version in the shell, and the final version has an adequate user
interface, but it's too slow.

We will be writing in C because it is the standard language of UNIX systems ---
the kernel and all user programs are written in C --- and, realistically, no
other language is nearly as well supported. We will assume that you know C, at
least well enough to read along. If not, read The C Programming Language, by
B. W. Kernighan and D. M. Ritchie (Prentice-Hall, 1978).

We will also be using the "standard I/O library," a collection of routines that
provide efficient and portable I/O and system services for C programs. The
standard I/O library is available on many non-UNIX systems that support C, so
programs that confine their system interactions to its facilities can easily be
transported.

The examples we have chosen for this chapter have a common property: they are
small tools that we use regularly, but that were not part of the 7th Edition. If
your system has similar programs, you may find it enlightening to
