
                               CHAPTER 4: FILTERS


There is a large family of UNIX programs that read some input, perform a simple
transformation on it, and write some output. Examples include grep and tail to
select part of the input, sort to sort it, wc to count it, and so on. Such
programs are called filters.

This chapter discusses the most frequently used filters. We begin with grep,
concentrating on patterns more complicated than those illustrated in Chapter
1. We will also present two other members of the grep family, egrep and fgrep.

The next section briefly describes a few other useful filters, including tr for
character transliteration, dd for dealing with data from other systems, and uniq
for detecting repeated text lines. sort is also presented in more detail than in
Chapter 1.

The remainder of the chapter is devoted to two general purpose "data
transformers" or "programmable filters." They are called programmable because
the particular transformation is expressed as a program in a simple programming
language. Different programs can produce very different transformations.

The programs are sed, which stands for stream editor, and awk, named after its
authors. Both are derived from a generalization of grep:

        $ program pattern-action filenames ...

scans the files in sequence, looking for lines that match a pattern; when one is
found a corresponding action is performed. For grep, the pattern is a regular
expression as in ed, and the default action is to print each line that matches
the pattern.

send and awk generalize both the patterns and the actions. sed is a derivative
of ed that takes a "program" of editor commands and streams data from the files
past them, doing the commands of the program on every line. awk is not as
convenient for text substitution as sed is, but it includes arithmetic,
variables, built-in functions, and a programmable language that looks quite a
bit like C. This chapter doesn't have the complete story on either program;
Volume 2B of the UNIX Programmer's Manual has tutorials on both.
