
selects the 10 most common words (the end of the sorted list) and 5 prints them
in five columns.

By the way, notice that ending a line with | is a valid way to continue it.

Exercise 4-3. Use the tools in this section to write a simple spelling checker,
using /usr/dict/words. What are its shortcomings, and how would you address
them?

Exercise 4-4. Write a word-counting program in your favorite programming
language and compare its size, speed and maintainability with the word-counting
pipeline. How easily you convert it into a spelling checker?


4.3 The stream editor sed

Let us now turn to sed. Since it is derived directly from ed, it should be easy
to learn, and it will consolidate your knowledge of ed.

The basic idea of sed is simple:

        $ sed 'list of sed commands' filenames ...

reads lines one at a time from the input files; it applies the commands from the
list, in order, to each line and writes its edited form on the standard output.
So, for instance, you can change UNIX to UNIX(TM) everywhere it occurs in a set
of files with

        $ sed 's/UNIX/UNIX(TM)/g' filenames ... >output

Do not misinterpret what happens here. sed does not alter the contents of its
input files. It writes on the standard output, so the original files are not
changed. By now you have enough shell experience to realize that

        $ sed '...' file >file

is bad idea: to replace the contents of the files, you must use a temporary
file, or another program. (We will talk later about a program to encapsulate the
idea of overwriting an existing file; look at overwrite in Chapter 5.)

sed outputs each line automatically, so no p was needed after the substitute
command above; indeed, if there had been one, each modified line would have been
printed twice. Quotes are almost always necessary, however, since so many sed
metacharacters mean something to the shell as well. For example, consider using
du -a to generate a list of filenames. Normally, du prints the size and the
filenames.

        $ du -a ch4*
        18      ch4.1
        13      ch4.2
        14      ch4.3
        17      ch4.4
        2       ch4.9
        $

You can use sed to discard the size part, but the editing command needs
