
what is requested. This would make it easy to issue prompts from the shell:

        $ pure-echo Enter a command:
        Enter a command:                        No trailing newline

but has the disadvantage that the most common case --- providing a newline ---
is not the default and takes extra typing:

        $ pure-echo 'Hello!
        > '
        Hello!
        $

Since a command should by default execute its most commonly used function, the
real echo appends the final newline automatically.

But what if it isn't desired? The 7th Edition echo has a single option, -n, to
suppress the last newline:

        $ echo -n Enter a command:
        Enter a command:$                       Prompt on same line
        $ echo -
        -                                       Only -n is special
        $

The only tricky case is echoing -n followed by a newline:

        $ echo -n '-n
        > '
        -n
        $

It's ugly, but it works, and this is a rare situation anyway.

A different approach, take in System V, is for echo to interpret C-like
backslash sequences, such as \b for backspace and \c (which isn't actually in
the C language) to suppress the last newline:

        $ echo 'Enter a command:\c'             System V version
        'Enter a command:$

Although this mechanism avoids confusion about echoing a minus sign, it has
other problems. echo is often used as a diagnostic aid, and backslashes are
interpreted by so many programs that having echo look at them too just adds to
the confusion.

Still, both designs of echo have good and bad points. We shall use the 7th
Edition version (-n), so if your local echo obeys a different convention, a
couple of our programs will need minor revision.

Another question of philosophy is what echo should do if given no arguments ---
specifically, should it print a blank line or nothing at all? All the current
echo implementations we know print a blank line, but past versions didn't, and
there were once great debates on the subject. Doug McIlroy imparted the right
feelings of mysticism in his discussion of the topic:
