
beyond convenience, to actually increasing the capabilities of the system.

Much of the power and convenience of the shell derives from the UNIX kernel
underneath it; for example, although the shell sets up pipes, the kernel
actually moves the data through them. The way the system treats executable files
makes it possible to write shell files so that they are run exactly like
compiled programs. The user needn't be aware that they are command files ---
they aren't invoked with a special command like RUN. Also, the shell is a
program itself, not part of the kernel, so it can be tuned, extended and used
like any other program. This idea is not unique to the UNIX system, but it has
been exploited better there than anywhere else.

In Chapter 5, we'll return to the subject of shell programming, but you should
keep in mind that whatever you're doing with the shell, you're programming it
--- that's largely why it works so well.


History and bibliographic notes

The shell has been programmable from earliest times. Originally there were
separate commands for if, goto, and labels, and the goto command operated by
scanning the input file from the beginning looking for the right label. (Because
it is not possible to re-read a pipe, it was not possible to pipe into a shell
file that had any control flow.)

The 7th Edition shell was written originally by Steve Bourne with some help and
ideas from John Mashey. It contains everything needed for programming, as we
shell see in Chapter 5. In addition, input and output are rationalized: it is
possible to redirect I/O into and out of shell programs without limit. The
parsing of filename metacharacters is also internal to this shell; it had been a
separate program in earlier versions, which had to live on very small machines.

One other major shell that you may run into (you may already be using it by
preference) is csh, the so-called "C shell" developed at Berkeley by Bill Joy by
building on the 6th Edition shell. The C shell has gone further than the Bourne
shell in the direction of helping interaction --- most notably, it provides a
history mechanism that permits shorthand repetition (perhaps with slight
editing) of previously issued commands. The syntax is also somewhat
different. But because it is based on an earlier shell, it has less of the
programming convenience; it is more an interactive interpreter than a
programming language. In particular, it is not possible to pipe into or out of
control flow constructs.

pick was invented by Tom Duff, and bundle was invented independently by Alan
Hewett and James Gosling.
